---
sidebar_position: 20
aliases:
- System Blocks and YAML
- Z2K System Blocks and YAML
- Z2K System Block Templates and YAML
---
# Using System Blocks and YAML
System Blocks work well with YAML Front Matter. Below are a number of different examples of how they can be useful. 

## Folder-wide YAML Properties
A simple use case is to set a YAML property that is to be set for every file within that folder. Take for instance a vault that has a folder for "Contacts".  If you want every contact file created in that folder to store away a YAML property for their relationship to you, you can add it to the System Block :

```yaml file="/Contacts/.system-block.md"
---
contact_relationship : "{{field-output Relationship directives='required'}}"
---
```

This will force the prompting interface to always prompt for a relationship value, and it will be required in order to close the initial prompt (useful to minimize [[Template Pollution]] in your YAML properties).

## Hierarchical YAML Properties
As system blocks are included automatically into new cards, they are included in the order of the path from the [[Templates Root Folder]] down to the final [[Destination Context]] folder.  As such, if a YAML property is redefined at each level inside a system block, it correctly results in the most localized version of that property when a new card is made. 

The trick is to understand that as you go down the hierarchy of your vault, you can further refine the same YAML front matter properties by overriding the values set at higher levels. 

Take for instance a vault with the following vault structure:

```text
my-vault/                           ← Root Vault Folder
├── .system-block.md
├── PARA/
│   ├── .system-block.md
├── LYT/
│   ├── .system-block.md
├── Z2K/
│   ├── .system-block.md
│   ├── Thoughts/
│   │   ├── .system-block.md
│   ├── Information/
│   │   ├── .system-block.md
└── ...
```

Now, in the root `.system-block.md` you introduce two properties:

```yaml file="/.system-block.md"
---
note-system: Unknown
z2k-domain: Unspecified 
---
```

This establishes two properties that will be included in every file generated by Z2K Templates. By default, it assumes the note system (e.g. PARA, LYT, Z2K) is unknown, and that the z2k-domain is Unspecified. 

Then, under the LYT folder's `.system-block.md`, you have the following file:

```yaml file="/LTY/.system-block.md"
---
note-system: LYT
---
```

This will result in all cards being created in the LYT folder to have the `note-system` yaml property set to LYT. The `z2k-domain` property will remain as `Unspecified`.

Similarly, the Z2K system block can redefine the note-system to be `Z2K` for all cards made in that section of the vault

```yaml file="/Z2K/.system-block.md"
---
note-system: Z2K
---
```

Finally, the System Block within the Information subfolder of the Z2K portion of the vault is able to set the Z2K Domain property. Thus, every file inside the Information will have both the `note-system` property set to Z2K, and the `z2k-domain` property set to `Information`.

```yaml file="/Z2K/Information/.system-block.md"
---
z2k-domain: Information
---
```





